COMMON CYBERSECURITY TERMS I NEED TO KNOW

Compliance is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations and enables organizations to avoid fines and security breaches.

Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy.

Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. They are used with security frameworks to establish a strong security posture.

Security posture is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. A strong security posture leads to lower risk for the organization.

A threat actor, or malicious attacker, is any person or group who presents a security risk. This risk can relate to computers, applications, networks, and data.

An internal threat can be a current or former employee, an external vendor, or a trusted partner who poses a security risk. At times, an internal threat is accidental. For example, an employee who accidentally clicks on a malicious email link would be considered an accidental threat. Other times, the internal threat actor intentionally engages in risky activities, such as unauthorized data access.

Network security is the practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access. This includes data, services, systems, and devices that are stored in an organization’s network.

Cloud security is the process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured, or set up correctly, and access to those assets is limited to authorized users. The cloud is a network made up of a collection of servers or computers that store resources and data in remote physical locations known as data centers that can be accessed via the internet. Cloud security is a growing subfield of cybersecurity that specifically focuses on the protection of data, applications, and infrastructure in the cloud.

Programming is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. These tasks can include: Automation of repetitive tasks (e.g., searching a list of malicious domains), Reviewing web traffic, Alerting suspicious activity



TRANSFERRABLE SKILLS AND TECHNICAL CYBERSECURITY SKILLS

Transferrable skills

Communication- Communication is impoortant as a cybersecurity analyst because I will have to communicate and collaborate with team members and other individuals. I have to communicate information and understand the issues precisely and cleanly in order to mitigate security issues quickly.

Problem Solving- This is one of the main tasks that cybersecurity analysts are given and they have to identify and solve problems. This is done by recognizing attack patterns, then determining the best solution to minimize risk.

Time management- time management is important as putting time into the most urgent task is necessary and urgently completing each task. By urgently completing tasks you can minimize the potential damage that can be done and risk to critical assets and data.

Growth mindset- Cybersecurity is an evolving field, so the mindset to continually want to learnm and improve is crucial as the past cybersecurityt will never be the same as the cybersecurity that is tommorow.

Diverse perspectives- There will be many differing perspectives within a team and by respecting the perspectives and using the good ideas given by other team members will drive the team to success, which will lead to many options and solutions to security problems.


Technical skills 

Programming languages-  Understanding programming language is extremely crucial as cybersecurity analysts can automate tasks that would be time consuming.

Security information and event management (SIEM) tools- SIEM tools collect and analyze data, or record events like unusualo login behaviors.
